Okay so let's start by making our wall segment.
I am going to build it up basically first and then if I need more detail I can increase the resolution
as well.
I'm thinking 64 by 64 be a good start point for this.
And let's zoom all the way in and come back out just a not so I can see my borders.
Now let's go to our colour palette.
Note that just go to colour and block out where things are going so I'm going to try and get a a sort
of a dirty brown for the actual ground itself.
And I'm little you going to use the pencil tool I'm going to need a bit more than that maybe 10 pixels
and block in the Ground segment.
I feel can be a little more than that.
And thinking about what else I can include on this particular layer.
Remember I did have that port colour shutting that was quite fun.
That might be able to be incorporated.
Now it is a different size to this particular image.
I think it was actually 128.
I'm not sure.
But anyway after this ground area there's the base of the wall itself.
So let's go and find the base of the wall or at least the colour for it anyway.
And then let's lower this down to may be all four pixels wide yet that looks about barite.
So we've got this base bits at the bottom.
And then we've got the bit above it as well.
Now all of this of course is just to get the idea the block colours in place.
And let's use the filter all to do the up a bit here.
Now of course that's a pattern I didn't change it to a colour.
I'm going to leave it like that for the moment.
So back to the task at hand.
You can see here on this background at 64 by 64 I've put in a little fill layer at the top using one
of the Patons and I've drawn the bottom of the wall and then the floor underneath.
Now this is a good starting point.
What I don't have yet is currently the pillar that will go up and down.
So let's go ahead and pick a colour for that because only going to be slightly darker there and then
with the pencil tool.
Again this is all blocking out at the moment.
I'm only going to go to four pixels wide but this will go all the way down to the bottom and I am going
to have to fill in this little area around the bottom.
Now if this was a relief this was a pillar which is supposed to be it will actually come down at the
bottom and then back out again.
That's just the way it would work it would come out props.
Not to that degree perhaps a little less than that but it will actually come out slightly below what
we can see here.
And again that's probably better.
Oh wait a minute no it does need to be a little bit further down but that's the base of the wall and
about that.
Yes that's definitely sticking out a bit further now.
Definitely looks like Papilla on the floor.
Perfect.
So now I've got the block work done.
It is a matter of filling in the detail where it's necessary.
And for that I'm just going to use all the tools we've learned so far.
And before I do that I'm going to make sure I save my work.
I've had a habit recently of forgetting to save what I've been working on until right at the very end.
And whilst that doesn't really matter in terms of the output that we're currently doing what does matter
is that you get into the habit of saving your works.
Can I say this as wall section.
Then once I've built up this section I can think go ahead and think about using this particular wall
section again and producing a nother wall piece from it.
Save me a lot of time.
Some of the speed up the video.
Now whilst I have the rest of the detail.
Case I'm hopping back pin here.
I'm going to have an overlay called brick work.
In fact this one's going to be specifically for the pillar said brickwork pillar and then I can go ahead
and add the detail for the brickwork just above its like.
Even see here and then what that does mean is I've got a tiny layer that I can repeat and repeat and
repeat and then merge back onto itself.
So here I'm going to duplicate and grab the move tool.
I'm going to zoom in so I can do some counting as well.
We can see that's one two three four pixels up site a move that the four pixels up that it needs to
be duplicate and do the same and then eventually once I've done a couple of them I can merge them down
right clicking and merge down right click merge down.
Now I can go ahead and when I duplicate.
I've got three to play with.
So it ends up being much faster to produce shit or artwork in that way.
And again I can duplicate again and pull this up.
Never find one there it will end up off the actual screen but that's absolutely fine.
That's given me the affect that I wanted and I can merge that all down into the final layers.
And once I've done that I can add in the other details or make sure that the right thing and then finally
I can add in the other details when necessary.
Okay so one thing that I've noticed as I've been playing about is I've inadvertently gone over the top
of the brick work pillar itself and it's just a matter here of grabbing the eraser tool zooming into
the appropriate location and just fixing those issues.
Now it may be quite difficult to do that as you can see but because it's on a separate lay what I can
do is grab a slightly larger brush size with the eraser tool setting it's a hard edged and finding the
edge of that pillar and simply erasing down now now opes Hey you do that.
It won't work.
I have selected the wrong layer so let me undo that and then select the right layer and then that should
clean up the mess I made earlier.
There we go.
So nice and tidy now we've got a hard edge along there.
On the edge of the pillar.
And we've also got one at the top as well.
Now I'm not quite liking the mixture of textures here I'm not sure whether that works or not remember
I turned the background off.
I pretty much do anything I'd like evos but otherwise I quite like how it's looking.
I am going to do something with this ground though at the speckling kind of works but it doesn't at
the same time and not liking it.
So going to go to my pattern fill and see if there's something else on the site she brick work in this
pattern fill.
Let's put that on the floor and see if that look okay.
I'm not sure it does she know and I'll undo that and just see if there's anything else that would work
really quickly ills.
It's always worthwhile try these things out you know.
Never quite sure how it's going to end up.
There's probably a little dark house for these speckles that are on it.
I am also not liking though.
So it's time for the Erase tool and they go right over the top of this.
Hopefully not erase anything important as I do.
Okay.
So we need to figure else down at the bottom here and grab the selection tool and select the appropriate
area.
It's good to have to be one pixel lower than that looking at it.
And let's try some other options Phil tool.
Let's try that.
Do I like that.
I think that's a good starting point.
I'm not quite sure on that pilaro I think it needs a bit more shading along it but otherwise that's
a great starting point for H duplication.
So I'm going to add everything to a layer group can call that layer group wall.
I'm going to call it a solid wall thinking about what I want to do next and I'm going to put everything
in that group.
Hopefully it will all appear in the right order of was a have this and reordering came as a great start
and then I can duplicate the group and turn the other one off.
So there's absolutely no confusion once I've done that.
So this is solid solid.
I forgot.
That's obviously my typing I'm thinking and talking at the same time and I could call this maybe windows
wall or something along those lines.
And then obviously go about making a window.
Now in order to cover this window in I am going to pick a similar colour that we've got where and I
actually I didn't mean to put that pattern in but you know what I think that works that works better
than the what I was going to do with the Pilla Excellent.
Okay that's worked out relatively well.
So I've now got my two wall pieces.
Let's see how they all fit together in order to test these.
I am going to go down the route of creating a new image that's going to be 64 in height.
But the width itself I'm going to set it in maybe two five six.
There's plenty of space to test these various labour groups and then I can go and grab the windowed
wall and drop it in and then I can also go in grab the solid wall and dropped it onto here as well.
Then it is a matter of arranging it so it makes some sense.
Bring that in cross and we can see here that we've got a bit of a layer issue would be nice if it was
all 64 by 64.
So in that case a bit of optimization to be done is making sure that once we're happy with this I can
save it.
All section.
There we go.
And replace.
And then finally I'm going to I could go in there and restrict the layers down that would be one way
of approaching this.
But instead of doing that for every single hour must save as and make this one.
Flatow And now that it's flattened or it's not flattened yet but I can go in nerja the lower group emerge
the other layer group.
There we go.
So these are now two images.
We still have a bit of an issue with the overall size of the layers.
So we go to our layers and we do layer to image size for both of these layers.
Now I could have done that to each individual one has we went but I'm quite happy doing it in this manner
then this is a matter of tracking it across and putting it on.
And then we've got something we can work with.
I'm just going to clear everything else that's on here.
There we go we've got an empty canvas ready to receive as one.
Here's the next one.
And then these should go together relatively well.
There we go.
Perfect.
How did you guys get on.
There are several variations I'd love to make on this but this is a great start.
We can see how these pieces would go together.
And of course now we've got a much larger image as well we could work on this one.
Hence building up from piece to piece as it goes.
And I really like this window is completely an accident.
I didn't even appreciate that was what I was going to put there because I wasn't paying attention to
whether pattern was selected or not.
But that worked out well in the end.
How did you guys get on.
I'd love to see your wall segments and how they're coming together.
Make sure you share your work over in the discussions.
And I will see you in the next lecture.